>>
In one of your articles, you talked about how the Appalachian region has the lowest
death rate from breast cancer even though the rates of breast cancer are higher than
the rest of the country.
And you also mentioned how extremely rural areas and poor areas will probably not notice
you know, whenever the collapse of the world economy arrives.
So, a question to me is, like, is there any reason why you wouldn't consider going to
the Appalachian region?
Or you don't think it's high enough altitude, or you think the culture there is not very,
I don't know, friendly?
Just curious.
Yeah, there are pockets of culture that could be acceptable, but other places, the xenophobia
basically, not just according to skin color, but just having the wrong accent of an outsider
can be difficult.
I would choose a completely different country where they're used to tourists and Anglo people
don't have such xenophobia.
Ron Unz has an article on his website recently about a journalist who went to Welch.
It's a town in southern West Virginia.
It's the poorest town in the poorest county in the entire country.
And he basically chronicled the decline of the area, which used to be booming in the
50s due to coal, and kind of coincided with the peak of America, from what I'm understanding.
You said that the 50s was really the time where people had everything they needed and
nothing they didn't.
And just the way he described the area is that because it's so poor, they've really
opened up to tourists, and they're really friendly.
There's basically very little internet and very little cell phone service, and everything
is dirt cheap there.
So I don't know, it sounds very attractive to me.
If I have to make a move from out of DC, that will probably be the first place I would try.
Yeah, I think poverty in terms of the internet culture is a very creative, highly progressive
thing.
Well, it seems like people from Monterrey are very westernized.
And that's something that...
Oh, Monterrey, Mexico?
Yeah.
Buildings there, I've seen slogans, "Hitler was right."
And the cops there are the nastiest I've ever seen in Mexico.
It's not just Americanized, but it's the worst industrialization can do to a government.
Good to know.
One thing I was interested in getting your take on, I'm not sure if we've ever talked
about it, but the incoherent narratives that conflict, just watching Fauci contradict himself
a hundred times.
And I think a lot of people would tend to say, "Oh, that's because our leaders are so
incompetent."
But what do you think about that being a strategy of terror, of confusion, to make people so
confused that it inactivates them because they don't know what to do because nothing
makes sense?
Yeah, I think it's natural for them to just talk through their hat.
And it turns out that that also is producing confusion and working in the direction they
want people to go, panic and confusion.
I have a book, it's by a guy named Kurt Lewin.
I think it's like 1942 or something.
And he was some big wig at the Tavistock Institute.
And in his book, he says, "If we just confuse people enough, they won't know what to do."
And even if you're a renegade, you will be inactive because there'll be no clear path
forward of what to do because everything is so...
That's basically what they do in the US.
The people that consider themselves radicals are aligned with Citibank and Wells Fargo
with the exact things they believe.
Yeah.
Four years or 2016 election, I guess it was, I noticed that the Communist Party of the
US was supporting Hillary Clinton.
That's a perfect example of confusing people to be utterly useless.
Or it shows how little commonness there is in the Communist Party of the United States.
Okay, well, we can take the show in really any direction we want.
Ray, did you want to...
You are working on something.
Did you want to talk about that?
Or we could go into questions.
Really, we have a free for all here.
Oh, questions are okay.
I'm right in the middle of thinking about what to write about something to do with development
and immunity and how the whole system has been warped so much that it's almost impossible
to talk about how the immune system works.
And so it's a perfect background for people saying ridiculous things about vaccines, for
example, because there's no solid ground for making a decisive and final argument about
any issue in the immune system.
You have to see the history going back more than 100 years to see why the situation is
so muddled around the vaccine issue.
Jamie Cunliffe and Polly Metzinger, did anybody take them seriously?
Was that more morphostatic view of immunity ever a real contender against the traditional
view?
Jamie Cunliffe and his danger hypothesis, I think he got right to the center of the
issue, but he hasn't been keeping up with his studies in the last 15 or 20 years.
He's hardly refined his thinking.
What he did was very good, and the Polly Metzinger ideas have been to some extent adopted by
the mainstream, but in the process, their meaning has been lost.
The potential of Polly Metzinger's system or perspective was to go the Cunliffe direction.
It has instead gone the clonal selection right down the mainstream, everything staying the
same.
If I could butcher that point of view, it's that tissue injury comes before any kind of
bacteria or fungi or anything like that, right?
If you're worried about immunity, you should be worrying about limiting tissue injury.
Yeah.
Our body is concerned with coming into existence and maintaining that existence and improving
it if possible.
The Cunliffe idea is that when something goes wrong, whether it's a mechanical, radiation,
chemical damage, or an organism that somehow created damage in our system, it's the damage
that our body is concerned with.
In the process of fixing that damage, it takes out the pathogen, whether it's part of an
organism or a toxin or even radiation damage.
The body takes the measures necessary to maintain its integrity and not really thinking or designed
for or evolved to attack enemies or other than self.
It's the process of optimizing the self that has a sideline that happens that sometimes
we develop the antibodies and so on for taking out viruses and bacteria and parasites.
Well, there's some studies showing that depending on the occupation, specific occupations had
a much higher rate of autoimmune conditions like rheumatoid arthritis, like boxers, since
they continuously damage their knuckles and various other joints, they're much more likely
to develop this autoimmune condition.
Hasn't this ever attracted attention of the mainstream medicine saying, well, there is
a connection between chronic tissue injury and autoimmune conditions?
Very little.
About 25 or 30 years ago, I saw a single article in which they took a piece of cow cartilage
and I forget who they injected it into, maybe rabbits.
And when it was in a fresh condition, it didn't elicit antibodies.
But if they just twisted the cartilage, gave it a little bit of mechanical stress, then
it elicited antibodies.
And that was like an image of how easy it is to induce the antibody reactions you see
in autoimmune conditions.
Have you seen the recent studies, I know you've said this many times, but recently they confirmed
that endotoxin is directly responsible for the flares of rheumatoid arthritis?
Yeah, I've been following that general line that any injuries to the tissue will bring
up the so-called autoimmune system.
Virus infections in some of the experiments were lethal if the organism wasn't allowed
to produce antibodies, the virus that would bring up the antibodies would in itself not
produce the disease, but the antibody itself was there mostly to clear out the damaged
tissue rather than to attack the virus.
Do you think chronic low-grade endotoxemia, as they call it, can be a factor in many of
these autoimmune conditions constantly causing this small level of injury?
And then eventually, I guess, if the organism is energetically depleted severely, then sort
of like a chronic autoimmune condition sets in?
Yeah, and things like lupus and the famous named autoimmune diseases including Sjogren's
syndrome and thyroid and probably MS, in some of these such as lupus, I've seen very clear
diagnoses of everything confirming that it was the so-called lupus condition causing
the arthritis and other symptoms, but just by correcting their vitamin D, calcium intake,
progesterone and thyroid, all of the symptoms disappeared and they gradually started having
a regression of the antibodies.
Right, so you're saying you don't need to go on the carnivore diet if you have an autoimmune
disease?
No, keeping your blood glucose up and your carbon dioxide high from oxidizing glucose,
I think those are the basic anti-inflammatory things that will correct all of the autoimmune
diseases.
I was making a joke, but actually, when a person does eat an all-meat diet and they
do experience like an improvement in their symptoms, it probably would be a reduction
in endotoxin, right?
Yeah, so many people are eating indigestible stuff that causes inflammation of their intestine
and a meat diet will simply represent the absence of toxic indigestible foods, but that
gives you very quick relief like a fast, a week of fast has very often completely relieved
the spondylitis type of arthritis and inflammation, but after you are on that diet for a while,
the excitatory inflammatory effect of the unbalanced phosphate and iron intake, a very
unbalanced diet, eventually brings up other problems just as serious.
One last question about this and then we can move on.
In the complex biochemical web of all the stress substances, we were talking last time
about PTH being like all roads lead to parathyroid hormone.
Where would you put endotoxin in that whole mix?
It's a constant threat everywhere and all the time.
The bad diet choices will make it take over and become dominant, but even with the best
diet, just something like a physical shock or an emotional shock can reduce the barrier
function of the intestine enough and slow the digestion so that you absorb more endotoxin.
So it's very controllable, but it's always a present danger.
I saw some old studies in the 50s and 60s showing that they suggested that the main
mechanism of the increased barrier permeability in the gut during stress was estrogen, because
when they basically gave an estrogen blocker, the effects of stress on the increased endotoxin
in the blood disappeared.
Do you share that view?
Body capillaries are where the intestine barrier is most important, and everywhere in the body,
estrogen weakens the capillary barrier.
Amazing stuff.
Thanks for that.
Or maybe we should do a little advertisement using air quotes here for your newsletter.
Okay, the newsletter is available by email now, and it's $28 US, which can be paid through
PayPal at rayPeatsnewsletter@gmail.com.
You can also order all of Ray's books, from PMS to menopause, progesterone and orthomolecular
medicine, gender of energy, my favorite, mind and tissue, nutrition for women, and then
Progest-E from Keenogen.
So you can email Catherine to purchase progestekeenogen@gmail.com, and each bottle contains 3,400 milligrams
of progesterone.
And while we're on the topic of progesterone, I'm going to kick questions off here with
Marcelo's question.
And he says, "Hey Danny, can you ask Ray if he had ever seen or heard of a woman regaining
her fertility taking high-dose progesterone?
We're talking to someone who has been infertile for a decade or more."
When I was teaching nutrition classes, there were several women who said they had been
infertile for more than 10 years.
And it was a three-month class, and usually there were two or three people during that
class who would suddenly get pregnant, almost all of them just with diet changes.
But it was to increase their progesterone and thyroid and to get their estrogen under
control.
And one woman, a medical doctor, she had diagnosed ovarian failure when she was, I think, about
35.
And by carefully taking a blood test about every week or two, she imitated the natural
hormones of the cycle with small amounts generally of both thyroid and progesterone.
That doesn't take a huge amount when it's at the right time.
And I think, I forget her exact age, but she was in her 40s and had been perfectly infertile
for over 10 years.
And had a baby very quickly as soon as she got her blood test showing the hormones in
the right range.
That's amazing.
Thanks for that.
Okay, first question.
"Raise thoughts on the importance of posture and health.
Does good posture come from good health or vice versa?"
I think good health makes you feel springy and energetic, so you take on the aspect of
a springy, energetic person.
If everything hurts and you're tired, naturally everything is going to slump.
I think a long time ago, you wrote to somebody I knew and you were specifically talking about
maybe DHEA and testosterone causing a lot of the slumping.
Of course, those are energetic types of therapies.
Yeah, and the pregnenolone and progesterone work with them.
The fascia that hold up your skin, even though they're basically fibroblast type cells, in
the absence of those protective steroids, they go limp.
And given just pregnenolone, for example, but the others all have a similar effect,
just a dose of pregnenolone will cause the fascia to contract, showing that they have
the properties of smooth muscle cells besides being the tough connective tissue that holds
your whole body organs in place.
For example, if the fascia gets loose, the tendons and capsules around tissues all get
slack and it can lead to the prolapse of the uterus, for example.
Several months ago, a woman told me that her doctor had planned to do surgery to pin her
uterus back where it should be, but she was using a mixture of DHEA and progesterone,
both topically and orally, and her uterus normalized.
No surgery needed to hold it in place.
That same thing where it happens throughout your body, undoubtedly it's going to affect
your posture and the feeling of strength in your joints.
Amazing.
Thanks for that.
Okay.
Does Ray think it's possible that apes are actually devolved human beings?
Yeah, I've joked about that a lot.
If the vegetarians found a very congenial environment where they could eat all the vegetables,
they wanted their intestine would get bigger and bigger and their brain would get a smaller
cortex and so on.
The parts of this have all been demonstrated.
The more fibrous your diet is, the bigger your colon gets, and you can cause radical
changes in a growing monkey, for example, just by the amount of fiber in the food.
And a poor diet very powerfully limits the growth of your brain.
I don't know about the distribution of body hair, but the length of the arms and legs
is also something that's very responsive to gestational conditions.
Georgi, I'm not trying to put you on the spot, but do you want to ask Ray that question you
talked about last time about the divergence of people that are following the rules versus
... Well, maybe I can just ask him.
You'd probably do a better job.
Do you know what I'm talking about?
Which one?
What do you mean, following the rules?
Like with the people that don't want ...
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Basically, I mean, I thought that evolution can work backwards too.
Basically, if the environment is not energetically conducive to maintaining higher complexity
of species, it's not just that apes are devolved humans.
We may devolve into a lower level species.
My question is related to this lady's, is that, well, if the monkeys eat mostly leaves
and fruit, aren't the leaves very rich in the keto acids?
So why would that be a poor diet?
I mean, it seems like they can get plenty of protein.
Because they're full of toxins.
Lately, I've been talking more about the causes of human development with a big brain and
the areas where the biggest brains of fossils have been found.
I think if you look at the idea of evolving in reverse when you eat too many leaves, instead
of leaves, if you have a very good climate that produces huge amounts of various fruits,
the extreme concentration of calories, you can either get the necessary proteins from
the right selection of fruits, or you could occasionally add eggs and bugs and so on.
But an abundance of fruit would provide the high calorie guarantee that is needed for
maintaining the very expensive brain.
The hunting diet, if you eat lots of meat, which some evolutionists have suggested, the
meat, even though it provides the essential proteins, doesn't necessarily provide the
very high concentration of glucose and the materials for metabolizing glucose.
It tends to cause hypoglycemia.
In fact, the more meat you eat, the more insulin you secrete to handle the disposition of the
protein.
And if you aren't taking in carbohydrate, then the meat will give you chronically increased
cortisol and a tendency towards hypoglycemia from the maintained high insulin.
You're telling me Klaus Schwab wanting us all to eat bugs?
He's on the right track?
What was that?
Klaus Schwab from the World Economic Forum.
You know he's all about us eating bugs as soon as possible.
Oh, yeah.
There are, I suppose, adequate protein.
Once I had some very nice things that seemed to be like little fish patties, but after
I'd eaten them, they turned out to be mosquito larvae.
There's a Mexican restaurant in DC and they serve tacos made from locusts.
Is this like a common thing in Mexico or is this some kind of a monstrosity that they
concocted here?
I never heard of the locusts, but around the lakes, you've seen the butterfly net fishermen
on Lake Patzcuaro probably.
I don't know if they still do it, but they used to have these big nets that they would
skim the mosquito larvae with so they could collect them in really nutritious quantities.
They had a pleasant, mildly fishy taste.
That has to be just pure punishment, like the bug agenda.
The oligarchs are just mad and they want to abuse the citizens.
Everybody eats bugs in Thailand, that's what I remember.
Great stuff.
Thanks for that, Ray.
What does Dr. Pete think about life after death?
I never really think about it.
I have read lots of discussion and more or less evidence.
A physics professor, one of the most famous physical chemists in the world, I always have
trouble remembering his last name, but he became notorious at the University of Texas
or Texas A&M maybe for doing experiments that showed transmutation of heavy metals into
gold.
After he retired, having experienced the powers that come to bear on anyone who thinks outside
of the system, such as believing that transmutation can happen at non-nuclear energy levels, cold
fusion for example, he wrote about the history of communicating with the dead.
His book, The New Paradigm, I think it's called, has lots of interesting historical discussions
of fairly convincing information transfer from post-living people to presently living
people.
I wish I had saved it.
There was actually a great response to this question on the YouTube comments section,
but they started with St. Georgie's, "The living state is the degree of electronic desaturation,"
if that's correct.
And they were saying when you die, you go down to a lower level of energy metabolism
and a lower level of consciousness.
Does that sound right to you?
I think it's on a completely different level.
The neutrino sea idea as the ether for interaction of all substance, physical things like gravity
and electricity, the common medium of neutrino sea actually has pretty good evidence.
The neutrino sea can resonate for a very low energy, but of the appropriate frequency,
very low energy patterns can influence this ether or neutrino sea.
And I think that's where the telepathic and transgenerational communication, how it's
working.
So, do you think what we call the soul may be something like a standing wave in the neutrino
sea?
Yeah, exactly.
Okay.
I'm very, for a layman, like, so the physical body disappears and we melt into this neutrino
sea, something like that?
Yeah.
I'm not sure if it's still on the internet, but there was a very good video doing the
physical energy calculations called No More Secrets, a Canadian psychologist who died
first thing, that just shows the physical energy possibilities for these externalized
patterns that people can tune into.
So do you think that principle of deja vu that people experience, like they have seen
that before, it's basically resonating with a past, with the brain state of not even their
own, a basic of a previous life, so to speak, or a person that, I don't know, a very similar
energetically wise, if we can say that their soul may be still being in the neutrino sea.
So what we experience as ancestral memories could be just resonating with those standing
waves that are still there.
But the deja vu, where you are experiencing something that you can actually see it coming
at you, so you know in some sense you've already seen it.
But our ordinary consciousness, we are constantly foreseeing a little bit of the future, and
we ordinarily only project two or three or maybe four or five seconds into the future.
But when you're listening to someone sing a tune or make a sentence, you can anticipate
what's coming, and there's no simple dividing line between what's immediately past and
what's immediately to come.
The brain is, in ordinary things like talking and singing, the brain is very oriented towards
forming an image of what's about to come, and that can vary, just a well-stimulated
brain can go much farther into hearing what's coming and interpreting what has just passed.
If you aren't attending to someone in a lecture and suddenly at the end of a sentence
they say a word that is important to you, you can wake up and replay, get back to the
beginning of that sentence, even though you weren't consciously recording it.
So you can make your brain back up and deliver something that you missed.
I was just going to say that the lack of clear dividing line between the immediate past and
the incoming immediate future, I think that line actually seems to extend way further
out because there are studies published showing that people that have learned something as
little kids completely forgot it and they went through some kind of a trauma, usually
an electric shock of sorts, suddenly remember everything in vivid detail from things that
happened decades ago and managed to basically reconstruct through a story that was later
verified because I guess that event was recorded somewhere, that they basically had an incredibly
detailed memory that they were able to connect with.
It was a very distant past, we're talking several decades.
Yeah, and if you think of the incredible detail in that kind of memory that we're ordinarily
completely unconscious of, that kind of extreme detail I think can extend into the future
even though you're not attending to it.
Sometimes the deja vu experience is when something slips in your brain and you forget to ignore
enough of what's coming in and suddenly you see what's to come for maybe 10 or 15 seconds
ahead.
What do you think of synchronicity?
Do you think it's a sign of us resonating well with the environment?
It seems to occur when people are in particularly good energetic state and attentive to the
environment.
Yeah, there are a couple of very good books on synchronicity.
One by F. David Peat is a good one, pretty much the history of stories about it.
But I think that's true that things are, again, the ether or the neutrino sea I think
is guiding causality enough that sometimes things will choose to happen because you're
ready to perceive them.
I see.
And one last question related to the ancestral memories.
There have been several public cases of people undergoing brain surgery and then when they
wake up suddenly start speaking fluently a foreign language that they had never heard
before in their lives.
What do you think could explain that?
Would it be a resonance with a dead soul or a previous brain state or what could it be?
Because they've never learned that language in their lifetime.
One of the cases I read about many years ago was a woman who had been a cleaning lady in
some academic organization.
She had spent years scrubbing floors and emptying waste baskets for professors who spoke different
languages but just being present.
When she had a brain accident suddenly she could speak the languages that she had been
around but not knowingly attending to.
I see.
So the brain acquired, I mean the brain is capable of resonating with past events though
not always on demand.
Some kind of a trigger is needed.
Yeah.
Aldous Huxley took up one of the ideas that was introduced I think at the end of the 19th
century and thought of the cortex of the brain as a filtering device and when something damages
the cortex enough to get it out of the way the full complexity of reality can break through.
I think I'm going to give myself a TBI to speak Spanish better.
Are you familiar, Ray, with the Hinduistic ideas?
Probably are.
Of prana and akasha.
Akasha I guess being the equivalent of the neutrino sea where every event that ever happened
basically is recorded forever and continues to exist as an analogy I guess of a standing
wave and then depending on the intellectual or consciousness state of the person practicing
yoga they can tune into that and basically have access to all of the events that have
already happened.
Yeah.
That sort of thing, the new paradigm, has really been developing for thousands of years
in pretty much all of the cultures around the world.
There's this idea that under certain circumstances you can tune in and know much more than ordinary
knowing could produce like the George Wasson's story of the magic mushroom.
Eventually it turned out that he was working with the government but he was at the time
just a hobbyist, a rich person wanting to investigate the magic mushroom culture of
Mexico.
One of their experiments was to, because the people talked about the ceremonies as their
mail service just so he could be there watching their procedures, he asked what was happening
with his son in New York and the shaman told him that something very serious was going
on and so when he got back to Mexico City he called his son and found that he had got
a draft notice that day and was in an emotional state.
There are lots of stories like that where the mushroom takers can focus in on something
in very, very remote places.
So the process of learning, would it be fair to say that it's basically the change of the
structure or even the frequency of that standing wave in the neutrino sea as we observe and
interact with new events?
Is that how we learn?
I think so.
Since very, very early, I don't really know when I concretized it, but I began seeing
consciousness as something electronic or finer, either the neutrino sea or a sort of coherence
of electrons, sort of like the conductive electrons in the metal.
I've visualized the process of consciousness in the brain as being this sort of jelly-like
ethereal material that we push around with our biological activity in the nerves, but
what's really happening is that we are the resonance process in this conductive electronic
or sub-electronic substance.
And so knowing, if that's what our everyday knowing is doing on its basis, then those
exceptional experiences of knowing things we shouldn't know would fit in with the idea
that we have adopted a way of using our cortex to filter out those ultra-fine details of
reality.
Amazing stuff.
Thanks for that, guys.
Please ask Dr. Peet about the safety of dental implants.
Are there issues in terms of inflammation/autoimmune response or toxicity?
Thank you.
The stories I've read about the failures have made such an impression on me that all of
the successes don't seem very important when you hear about someone's jaw falling off,
basically.
The bone disappearing, the jaw bone disintegrating to the point that they have to put a metal
jaw bone in.
I kind of forget about this, but I got my tooth knocked out a long time ago in 2009.
I have a plastic retainer.
What kind of devastating things is that doing to my health, do you think?
Just a plastic over your tooth, I don't think hurts anything especially.
It's one that covers, it's like the front left tooth, so it covers all the teeth on
the top.
It's kind of ruining a lot of the back teeth because it's constantly there.
Yeah, I don't think it does any deep harm, but the idea of putting a foreign object,
the teeth are separated from the bone by very special barriers, but to dig right into the
bone and put a foreign object inside the bone, that just doesn't make biological sense.
Sometimes the body can handle it and you won't lose your jaw bone, but when it does, there's
hardly any repair that's satisfactory.
Would you say dentures will be safer?
They can do the exact same thing without the implantation risks?
All kinds of restoration are preferable.
Crowns can often be done on a basically destroyed tooth.
Amazing.
This one's from our friend Dodie.
She says, "We know the purpose of the vaccine, if that's what you want to call it, but what
is the purpose of the booster shot for COVID and how does it relate to the variant?"
The increasing insights into the appearance of the variants, so-called, it increasingly
looks clear that the variants are nothing but the side effects of the various nucleic
acid treatments.
The first reaction of people like Luc Montagnier was that the variants were caused by the immunity
to the first one, and so the virus would mutate and become maybe more and more infectious,
but usually that kind of resistance of the host generally leads to it becoming less deadly
while being more infectious.
But as the information has come in, it looks like there might not be any such thing as
a gamma, delta, whatever variant, but simply that it's a name that's being given to the
symptoms produced by the original vaccine.
So if that's the case, then the booster shot is, if it's the real vaccine material, it's
just going to produce more so-called variants, more vaccine symptoms.
Great stuff.
Thanks, Dodie.
Thanks, Ray.
Okay, "Does Ray identify himself as a social anarchist in the sense of excluding rent-seeking,
forming worker cooperatives, freeing the individual from authority, collectivism, direct democracy,
mutual aid, etc.?"
No, I think organization, if it's allowed to develop, the systems have been very quick
to kill any incipient organization, but to the extent that they can spontaneously come
into existence, you'll have consumers, cooperatives, and producers, cooperatives, and the organization
will be what suits the people on the ground level, but if that's allowed to develop, it
will develop, and they will find the best way for these ground-level cooperative organizations
to cooperate on a larger and larger scale.
So I think that's a natural course of development.
If some of these spontaneous cooperative groups could somehow take over the state, then you'd
have the problem of maybe the consumers having more control than the producers, but if it
grows up from the ground up, you're going to have to solve the problems of each level
of organization as they come about.
So I don't think there's any problem with evolving even a world-level state as long
as it's based on these spontaneous surface level.
Is there any truth to, I mean, the way it at least looks to me is that the social structure
and the political structure are in a sense a metabolite of the health of the people that
are building them.
So if the people are relatively healthy, they can thrive under a variety of systems without
them being exploitative and degenerating into the worst that a particular system has to
offer.
So instead of worrying about a specific political system, wouldn't be the most prudent thing
would be to just sort of like optimize or maximize individual health and then see what
kind of structure emerges from there?
Yeah, because different cultures, for example, military oriented cultures, there's evidence
that they are very tightly connected with child abuse and body mutilation and repression
of sexuality in children.
Those things are closely tied with sadistic group policies and sadistic war making, head
chopping and so on.
And you don't want one of those societies to take over a larger government.
It has to be basically an indulgent social organization that doesn't oppress its own
children.
But in a healthy, in a group of healthy people, that sort of society wouldn't form to start
with.
My concern is that as soon as we say, oh, we should prevent that sort of culture taking
over and then establishing itself, then the only way to fight such a vicious thing is
through basically other kinds of violence, which ultimately tends to be kind of self-defeating
because if you continue this conflict long enough, even the good peaceful culture will
eventually militarize itself through this constant conflict that has been going on.
So it seems to me that the only way to ensure a sort of like semi-stable existence of a
large group of people is make sure that as many of them are as healthy as possible and
then natural or natural non-exploitative order should arise.
Yeah, the problem is that an urge to conquer tends to lead to conquest and that involves
such things as being hostile, outline good food, for example.
Basically conquest can take the form of establishing a medical system that doesn't allow preventive
methods, says everything has to be focused on killing the pathogens, cutting out the
details and so on, so the society that asserts the importance of being healthy is itself
in danger of offending the sadistic cultures and stimulating oppression from them.
So I guess there is some truth to the saying that eternal vigilance is the price of freedom
even for healthy people.
I think so until two or three generations you might outgrow the sadistic tendencies
that have been inculcated for so long.
164 people watching right now.
Thank you guys so much.
Sincerely appreciate it.
Give this episode a like.
All donations here will be sent to Ray.
I don't think I sent you the last donation.
I've been very busy, but I will send them to you.
I promise.
Georgie Dinkov, thank you so much for being here.
Obviously, Ray, thank you so much for doing this so regularly.
Such a pleasure to have you on.
This next question.
What does Ray think is the role of estrogenic predominance in sexual orientation and paraphilic
disorders?
So sexual fetishes, nymphomania, excessive masturbation, and porn addiction.
What do you think about that, Ray?
One of the problems with high estrogen is that it doesn't allow sexual satisfaction.
It's the prod to seek satisfaction, but it requires a good balance of thyroid and progesterone.
And androgens to achieve satisfaction.
And so it can lead to such things as nymphomania or insatiability.
And at the same time, it has this toxic excitatory effect on the brain.
So it can contribute to obsessiveness, hyperactivity, poor attention.
Everything you do to increase your biological energy and vitality is tending to keep estrogen
subdued.
Amazing.
So a similar track.
Is celibacy dangerous in a relationship that will be long term for the foreseeable future?
I think it's always a result of an imposition like these sadistic cultures suppress women's
sexuality in particular.
And they start very early by often mutilations, including circumcising both girls and boys
to remove the satisfaction of sexual interest.
Amazing.
Thank you for that, Ray.
OK, last sex question here.
Not to put him in the public ire, but does Ray what does Ray think of homosexuality?
But does Ray think homosexuality is optimal, optimal normalcy?
If it's optimal or what?
I don't really know what they meant by that, but I guess your take on homosexuality.
I think the gist of the question is the person thinks that homosexuality is driven by hormonal
imbalances and it's not in an optimal, healthy sexual state.
Yeah, the evidence from history as well as animal experiments are that you can produce
it by stress during gestation.
Gestation is abnormal in some way, isn't something that I think law should be involved in regulating
in any way.
But I think the evidence is clear that it's a particular product of both prenatal and
early life stresses.
Have you seen the more recent studies demonstrating that finasteride can pretty reliably induce
homosexuality in animals?
No, I haven't seen that.
Yeah, well, I mean, I guess you can never know if an animal is homosexual or not, but
they started displaying the male animals started behaving like females and started quoting
the other normal males and assumed like a mating position and basically started behaving
like females.
And when they stopped administering the finasteride, basically they became asexual.
They stopped behaving like females, but they didn't revert back to behaving like males
either.
And only when they were administered very high doses of testosterone did they sort of
not completely sort of revert back to acting like normal males sexually.
How long ago was that done?
That study is, well, it's not that old.
I think it was from the late 90s.
Well, to tag along with what you said, if a culture is promoting stress in every way,
shape or form, and then stress promotes homosexuality, it's not like a moral judgment on a person.
They're just expressing what the signals from the environment are telling them to do, right?
Yeah.
Thanks for that, Ray.
Sincerely appreciate it.
Okay, let me.
Okay, I get this question a lot.
So this is why I'm asking, what are Ray's thoughts on Adolf Hitler and his expulsion
of banking cartels and masons from Nazi Germany?
And then the other part of this question was a little too hot for YouTube.
He had many right perceptions, but in a very crooked way.
He convinced the voters that Germany had been close to revolution, and the fear was that
the voters would gradually support a Bolshevik type of government.
And so all of the money and bank powers of Germany and England and the US concentrated
on supporting him as the barrier against Bolshevism.
And he developed a language that would convince the voters who wanted social welfare, guaranteed
employment, health care and so on, good transportation and so on.
He talked to them and said he would give them socialism, but he told the bankers there would
be national socialism that wouldn't threaten to benefit anyone outside of German society.
And so he had lots of progressive pro-worker things for German citizens, but at the same
time he was following the instructions of the money system.
And his anti-Semitism was partly just to convince the working people that he had an awareness
of the manipulators of money and the banks, but he really was working with some of the
top Zionists, and they wanted pressure on European Jews so that they would move to Israel
and set up a new country.
So there was collaboration between the Zionists and Hitler for a while, but it finally turned
into the murderous anti-Semitism.
And the things such as the anti-masonry, that was part of the German culture at the time.
He used those things to keep his mass support along with giving them cheap little cars and
high-speed highways, things that simply made the Germans able to be distracted from what
he was doing elsewhere.
Amazing, thanks for that.
How might Ray respond to the question of why worker ants are sent out into dangerous conditions
while queen ants are protected other than worker ants are not reproductive, cannot pass
on genes anymore?
Well queens can, same with bees.
I wasn't joking when I said ants were observable national socialists.
Their organism also strategy is clearly designed around a collective effort to provide for
reproduction of the tribe's genetic material.
They have a rigid deterministic caste system where sterile ants are sterile their whole
lives and will readily give up their lives to protect the productive queens.
But at the same time individual ants can be intelligently altruistic one ant to another.
So it's not, I mean, it's a hierarchical structure, but they're also altruistic to each other
at the same case when they actually should be competitive if there's truly a national
socialistic system, right?
Yeah, and there are lots of good people doing good things in the United States, for example,
even though the system is definitely not designed to have good people doing good things.
Let me ask the question which Danny didn't, but it's right there.
Somebody asked, is Ray Peat a communist?
And I know it's a very loaded word.
I thought you answered it already.
That's why I didn't answer it.
But no, there was another one where he's a social anarchist, but somebody asked directly,
is Ray Peat a communist?
There you go.
I'm not sure what the difference is.
If you define either of them very thoughtfully, there's not really any difference.
You want to get rid of tyranny and you want to have cooperation.
The idea of communism essentially goes back to Christianity as the main source of those
ideas.
And it has developed a lot of historical confusion around it, but the Christian beliefs are at
base, you could say that they're predominantly communistic.
Didn't William James say that Christ was a communist or something along those lines?
A lot of people have, because of his attitude towards money changers, the common person,
even the outcasts of the system, he was definitely a bottom-up person.
You can call that anarchism or communism either way.
Do you think it's possible to have Christianity without the involvement of the church?
And by the church, I specifically mean corrupt structures like the Vatican with their history
of child abuse and financial machinations and supporting the Nazis and everything else.
Yeah, I think one of the most interesting books on Christianity was Wilhelm Reich's
book The Murder of Christ, and he gets much of his guidance from the New Testament.
Amazing.
Okay, let me search real fast for  I skipped this question.
Okay, in regards to an extremely morbidly obese person in their 40s and 50s, what are
the first steps they should do to tackle their weight?
Should some fasting regimen like Alternative Day or OMAD be feasible in this situation
simply because of the danger posed by their weight?
If they're 300 plus pounds and they simply might not live long enough to take the slower
PUFA-depleting bioenergetic route?
And what were the alternatives?
Well, they were saying, "Should I fast or should I do one meal a day?"
Or I guess another possibility would be liposuction.
If somebody's extremely obese, what do you think?
And they don't have a lot of time, what do you think they should do?
All of the alternatives are extremely harmful, and I've wondered whether there might not
be a type of surgery to remove
Hello?
Yeah, do we just lose Ray?
Yeah, we do.
Okay, I thought it froze.
Okay, let's  oh, Ray, are you there?
Yeah.
Sorry, you just dropped out for a second.
I think we can just start that question over if you remember.
Okay.
The amount of damage is something that can be investigated.
The way liposuction is usually done, just sort of stirring a suction tube around in
the fat causes lots of nerve damage as well as liberation of free fats into the system.
And there might be surgical ways of removing a large mass such as abdominal fat while doing
less systemic damage with good local anesthesia, for example.
I think it might be possible to unload 40 or 50 pounds of fat without doing terrible
damage.
But a fast, especially if you're fat, that fat is going to travel through your brain
and liver and other organs on its way out of the body.
And so you're exposing yourself to a great prolonged toxicity.
I've seen someone fast steadily for two months to get over extreme obesity.
I'm not sure that your lifetime effect on your health is going to be worth it.
What about chemical interventions?
I mean, there is a tremendous track record of things like dinitrophenol being able to
cure effectively even extremely morbidly obese people, of course, under medical observation
because it can easily kill you if you overheat.
Would something like that be considerable?
Overdosing on thyroid does the same thing.
At the right level, it can increase your safe oxidation of fats while helping to suppress
the toxic random oxidation.
Both DNP and thyroid can, carefully controlled, can reduce the toxicity of getting rid of
the fat.
But I think a diet high in calcium and vitamin D should be part of the program because they
will support safe oxidation and provide the nutrients that, for example, a high milk diet
will keep your metabolic rate higher and suppress the toxic effects.
Amazing.
Thank you for that.
About 10, 15 more minutes here and then we'll let you go, Ray.
Thank you so much.
Thank you, Georgie Dinkov.
Appreciate it.
Okay, let me find this question.
Aside from painting, does Mr. Pete recommend any other practice for positive brain effects
such as knitting, sculpting, etc.?
Whistling, singing, playing a French horn, playing a recorder whistle, playing the cello
or violin, all kinds of things that are very structured and stimulating.
Wouldn't things like gardening and tending to animals also work?
Oh, yeah.
Amazing.
Okay, James says, as a social animal, humans seem to have a need to belong and experience
connection with other people.
How can we meet this need in the current authoritarian anti-life culture and avoid a life of atomized
loneliness?
I don't know, but I keep looking around for what people can do.
Just the simplest personal contact, if you can get three or four or more people together
with a similar interest, such as little music groups, something that is harmless looking
to the society, but getting people together, they're going to talk about their fate under
the present system.
Anything you can think of to put people into personal contact, I think is going to eventually
lead to political progress and organization.
This person says, on the most recent Radio Network interview, Ray talked a little about
pheromones.
He said a woman's emitted pheromones can change the way she is on birth control and again
when she stops.
Does Ray know what a woman emits and what she responds to changes in the lead up to
menopause and can a man's pheromones change as well, making him less attractive to his
partner?
Sorry, this is a really long one.
Can a woman's lack of interest in her long-term partner be due to pheromones?
Last thing, can anything be done to restore the pheromones to attractiveness again?
Good diet and hormone activity is the best thing to optimize the pheromones, but it's
true that both men and women have less of the attractive pheromones and probably gradually
some repellent pheromones.
I think little kids emit anti-sexual pheromones that I think they induce parental attitudes
towards them and then around puberty the chemistry changes towards sexual attraction.
To a great extent, I think the same attractants are emitted by both men and women, but with
some subtle variations that I don't think anyone has a very clear idea of what a woman's
attraction chemistry is, but I'm sure it contains some of the steroids that men emit.
Super simple question, but what is a pheromone?
It's released by hair follicle?
It can be any chemical that is volatile enough that you can detect it at some distance from
the emitter.
Fatty acids of different sorts work for insects and other animals, but the most clearly defined
human pheromones are derivatives of androgenic steroids.
Amazing.
Let's do one last break here real fast for talking about Progest-E and then I'll ask
you one or two more questions.
Okay, so Progest-E from Keenogen emailed Catherine to purchase a bottle.
She ships very quickly.
She packs it in this like mylar or something that protects it during shipping.
It's keenogen@gmail.com.
Each bottle of Progest-E contains 3,400 milligrams.
I have a photo here.
This is DHEA in this little thing here and then I have a little tiny $15 scale and then
I mix it in this glass thing I got from Japan, which I'll never go back to again.
A glass of Japan.
Japan, unfortunately, because I will never travel again, unfortunately.
And then you can, the newsletter is available by email now.
It's $28, which can be paid through PayPal.
And I mean, best deal on the internet for raised by monthly newsletter.
And you can also purchase his books.
And those are basically collector's items and I'd recommend everybody obtain them.
Okay, so again, I think we've talked about this many, many times, but I guess we can't
talk about it enough.
So this person says, if forced to be inoculated, are there any supplements or diet that will
counteract the harmful side effects of the mRNA vaccine?
The first thing is to consider your defenses and resistances, how you can avoid getting
it put into and if you can find alternatives such as a certificate of pre-existing immunity
or maybe a form of a vaccine that doesn't contain the nucleic acids because the present
ignorance, the reason the experiment is being done is because it has never been studied
in humans before and so you don't know what the outcome is.
And as long as it's experimental, it's on the surface, meaning we don't know what the
long-range outcome is going to be.
And the animal evidence is that there could be terrible long-range effects such as increased
susceptibility to all kinds of infectious diseases or to cancer or to brain degeneration
or sterility.
So if you allow yourself to be vaccinated, you're taking a big experimental gamble,
the outcome of which you won't know as long as you're alive.
The fact that the so-called variants are tremendously increased in the people who had the vaccine
suggests that the disease effects of the virus and vaccine are essentially identical and
that is primarily through the toxic effects of the spike protein and that is a fundamental
and total promotion of inflammation in every system, hypertension, development of autoimmune
diseases, everything you can think of is promoted, which is promoted by angiotensin, is going
to be a possible outcome of a vaccine.
So the angiotensin receptor blockers and antihistamines and aspirin were known way back 10 or 15 years
ago to protect against the toxic effects of the spike protein.
The toxicity of that protein has been studied now for a long time and so the Chinese were
among the first to realize that angiotensin receptor blockers, antihistamines and aspirin
simply by being anti-inflammatory were the first things to resort to.
So does the mRNA that's in the vaccine, does it use the same mechanism through the ACE2
enzyme to get inside of the cell?
Once you get the RNA in, it doesn't matter whether it's free RNA that comes into you
after being shed by someone who was vaccinated, most likely is either in an exosome form or
as free RNA coming out of their breath and skin and saliva and getting into your system.
So what I'm getting at is there is no way to prevent the mRNA present in the vaccine
from getting inside of the cell, similar to how we can prevent the virus from getting
inside of the cell, the wild virus, by giving something like Losartan or anything that blocks
that specific entry pathway.
Nothing I know of.
They're using a lipid for getting the RNA quickly into the cells, but other studies
show that you don't really need the lipid.
It will be taken up even in the naked RNA form and that's just a tendency of cells
is to take up circulating molecules and sometimes they can be either assimilated or destroyed.
This particular fat happens to take the highest concentration in the ovaries, but distributes
it in every kind of cell in the body.
I'm moving house in November and I found a place that I really liked and we were doing
all the paperwork and the owner was like, "Can you send me your vaccine papers?"
And I was like, "Yeah, there's no way that's going to happen."
And they're like, "Oh yeah, you can't move in there."
I was like, "Okay."
In Mexico?
A gringo owned the house.
But it's just a sign of the future, I guess, or things that come.
There's a very interesting, entertaining situation.
Okay, Ray, we're going to say something, Ray?
No.
Okay.
Ray Peet, thank you so much.
Stay on the line for just one minute, Ray.
Georgi Dinkov, thank you so much.
Is there any parting words, Ray?
Nope.
Georgi Dinkov, any parting words?
Well, I guess to me, the Appalachians start looking more and more attractive.
If it's extremely rural and poor and has no internet and no cell phone service, I think
it should be considered.
Guys, we have an amazing audience.
Cecilia, appreciate it.
I get so many positive messages about these shows.
They're so fun to do.
Took a lot of work.
Thank you so much, Ray, for making these so special whenever you're on.
Thank you so much, Georgi, my partner in crime.
And thank you for the amazing audience.
Give this episode a like, subscribe to the sub stack or follow the show in some way,
shape or form.
And then also send all those donations to Ray.
Guys, thank you so much.
Have an amazing, amazing weekend.
And we'll see you sometime next month.
Okay, bye everyone.
[Music]